Fragmentation:
Limits when using:
Extra Network Overheads-20B per sub-pkt
Extra Host Overheads - chunking & ordering & merging
Single sub-pkt loss - resend for all other sub-pkts

Needs for finding the right size for each fragmentation

Path MTU discovery
Init: just send original "large" pkt
If routers can handle -> free if problems
Otherwise routers would reject such a pkt with ICMP msg back.

IPv4 - 2 approaches for fragmenting
  non-transparent -just fragment
  Path MTU - find the largest allowed pkt size
  
IPv6
  Hosts to discover the optimal path MTU
  
Subnets
  use masking to separate single subnet area to several ones
  
Medium Access Control (MAC)

Instead of end to end connection:
  wifi connection - broadcasting communicating pattern
    -> Everyone can hear every pkt broadcast by wireless router
  on replying: devices.
  
ALOHA
  For end users: just send data
  if ACKed, then done
  if collided: resend pkt after an arbitrary timeout
  Until pkt sent - ACK received

Problems: 
  low throughput ^ avg 18% Network usage
  timeout mechanism - may have to wait several TO before timeout.

To improve:
CSMA - Carrier- Sense Multiple access
  Listen before talk
  if the router was not occupied by other devices, then send my pkt

Problems:
  More complicated implementation
  collision still not been fully solved
    -> 2 devices send pkts to router at the same time.
 
Minimise the cost when collided
CSMA/CA - CSMA with collision Avoidance
Contention window - Cwin, uniformly set at a random value initially
Workflow
  Idle channel -> counting down from Cwin
  if Cwin == 0 -> send a pkt
    if ACKed, done
    If not, Cwin = Cwin * 2, repeat

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


1. Consider sending a 1500-byte datagram into a link that has an MTU
(Maximum Transmission Unit) of 500 bytes. Suppose the original datagram is stamped with the identification number 1. Assume that IPv4 is
used. Hint: The IPv4 header is 20 bytes long.

Need to chunk into smaller because it's too big.

(a) Where does fragmentation happen? Where are the fragments reassembled?

ROuters with small MTU -> necessity for fragmentation.
Pkt re-assembled at the end hosts

(b) How many fragments are generated?

500 has 20 header and 480 data.
480 * 3 + 1

+ 1 is for anything else carrying
60 left so another one fragment needed.

4 fragments in total 

(c) In addition to the identification number, what are the fields in the
generated IP datagram(s) that are related to fragmentation?


(d) What are the values of the fragmentation-related fields in the generated IP datagram(s)?

DF = 0
First 3 fragments: MF = 1; 4th MF = 0
1st FO = 0; 2nd FO = 60; 3rd FO = 120; 4th FO = 180

480 / 8 bytes
960 / 8 bytes
...

2. John’s home network consists of his laptop, smart phone and smart speaker.
(a) Is it likely that each of these devices will each have unique global IP
address? Explain why or why not.



(b) The network address of the home network is 192.168.1.0/24. Assign
addresses to all interfaces in the home network.

Just allocate internal IPs to each of the devices
192.168.1.1

(c) Describe a widely used solution (as described in the lectures) which
allows several devices to share the same global IP address.

NAT - Network address transmission

(d) John is a keen computer science student who is writing his own web
server. Describe the key difficulty he will face when testing his server
which is related to the solution you described above, and describe a
workaround for the problem.

Once an external user initiated a connection to the web server -> 404
Manually set a NAT rule;: mapping internal web server

3. Explain the difference between an application layer proxy and a NAT box.

APP proxy:
  App -> proxy -> Destination
  Mapping external IP address to numbers of internal IP addresses

4. Why are acknowledgments used in 802.11 but not in wired Ethernet?

Wireless scenario: more likely losing pkts
wireless sender may not be capable listening and sending at same time.
Interference may occur without sender's awareness

5. If the duration of a packet is very much less than the propagation delay
(round-trip time) from one side of a network to the other, does CSMA
provide much performance benefit over Aloha? Why or why not?

No.
CSMA: listen before sending
While RTT super large when compared to pkt sending/resending:
Worse case: listening to the other end of network consuming a RTT

6. Which is “better”, Aloha or CSMA? Why?

ALOHA: simpler, but lower TP
CSMA: better performance, but more complicated implementation

Dependency on e.g. Hardware
  Only poor performance provided: ALOHA may beat CSMA

7. If CSMA was phased out of ethernet decades ago, why is it still used in
WiFi?

Wifi: based on broadcasting, manipulates over a shared medium
Ethernet: point to point connection, no need to severely negotiate with other hosts.

