
1. In what sense is modern ethernet still “ethernet”? In what fundamental
ways has it changed?

From applications's perspective:
  No change but faster than before
  
Basic implementation:
  No longer use a shared medium -> point to point connectivity
  bandwidth: 10 mbps -> 10 gbps

2. Rank the following in order of speed, from slowest to fastest. Discuss.
(a) A single segment of 100 Mbps CSMA/CD ethernet (“Fast ethernet”)
(b) Switched 100 Mbps ethernet
(c) The same number of hosts as above on three “Fast ethernet” segments, connected by bridges
(d) Switched 10 Mbps ethernet

Important measures:
  - bandwitdh (d) < (a) < (b)
  - with bridging: (a) < (c)  - single segment is faster


3. How many combinations of three non-overlapping WiFi channels are there?
A rough answer is good enough. Is any one combination better than any
other?

Because (1, 6, 11) is widely used, using that comb makes it more likely that network bands will overlap either completely or not at all,
making CSMA more effective

4. How does clock speed (the “GHz”) of a CPU influence its performance?
Until about a decade ago, CPU manufacturers used to advertise the clock
speed prominently, but they no longer do. Why not? Think about the
microarchitecture of the Core 2 shown in lecture notes, and about pipelining.

Previously, clock speed was used to decided the perfo of a CPU
Each step of the pipeline takes one clock cycle
Instructions can take more or fewer cycles
Pipelines can be stalled more or less

There's a relationship but not deterministic

5. Consider a CPU for which it takes 0.6 ns to or write read up to 16 bytes
from RAM and 0.7 ns to interpret an op-code and work out how to execute
it. Most instructions take less than 0.5 ns to execute (excluding fetch,
decode and writeback), but one takes 1.3 ns to complete.

(a) What is the fastest clock speed (in MHz or GHz) that the CPU can
operate at.

Maximum stage of pipe line: 1.3 * 10^-9s -> 1/ max stage time = 0.77 ghz
-
(b) If the slow instruction can be removed from the instruction set, what
is the fastest clock speed the CPU can operate at?

Remove 1.3
Maximum: 0.7ns

(c) If the slow instruction is vital, what other approaches could be taken
to allow the CPU to operate at the faster clock speed?

Take 1.4 Ghz (for 0.7ns stage) and let 1.3ns one be stalled for 2 CLK

6. Identify the micro-ops you think would be required for each instruction in
the int i=1; example

Copy the c code from the lecture

7. An ALU (arithmetic logic unit) takes two operands and produces an arithmetic or logical output, such as their sum. What other arithmetic or
logical operations could it perform?
Add-with-carry adds two numbers and then adds the ”carry” bit (as the
least-significant bit) from the flags register. It is mainly used for computing quantities too big to fit into a register, but also allows ones-complement
addition which you have used for for calculating UDP checksums.
Subtract-with-carry subtracts one number from another, and then subtracts the carry bit.
Note that multiply is listed but divide is not. Division is more complex,
and is often relegated to the floating point unit.
Shift-left is equivalent to multiplication by two, unless the most significant
bit was 1. Some instructions shift the most significant bit into the carry
flag.
Shift-right is equivalent to division by two. There are often two forms: one
assuming the number is signed and one assuming the number is unsigned.

Arithmetic: subtract, multiply...
Logical: bitwise AND, OR, XOR...

8. The number of stages in a pipeline is called its depth What are the advantages and disadvantages of a deep pipeline?

Pros;: each stage located simpler functionaloties higher CLK speed

Cons: 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Are all instructions pipelinable?
  No


